.TH VIM 1 "1994 August 12"
.SH NAME
vim \- Vi IMproved, a programmers text editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vim
[options] [file ..]
.br
.B vim
[options] \-t tag
.br
.B vim
[options] \-e [errorfile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Vim
is a text editor that is upwards compatible to vi. It can be used to edit any 
ASCII text. It is especially useful for editing programs.
.PP
There are a lot of enhancements above vi: multi level undo,
multi windows and buffers, command line 
editing, filename completion, on-line help, visual selection, etc..
Read difference.doc 
for a summary of the differences between vi and Vim.
.PP
Most often
.B Vim
is started to edit a single file with the command
.PP
	vim file
.PP
More generally VIM is started with:
.PP
	vim [options] [filelist]
.PP
If the filelist is missing, the editor will start with an empty buffer.
Otherwise exactly one out of the following three may be used to choose one or
more files to be edited.
.TP 12
file ..
A list of file names. The first one (alphabetically) will be
the current file and read into the buffer. The cursor will be
positioned on the first line of the buffer. You can get to the other files
with the ":next" command.
.TP
-t {tag}
The file to edit and the initial cursor position depends on a "tag", a sort 
of goto label. {tag} is looked up in the tags file, the associated file 
becomes the current file and the associated command is executed. Mostly this 
is used for C programs. {tag} then should be a function name. The effect is 
that the file containing that function becomes the current file and the 
cursor is positioned on the start of the function (see reference.doc, 
section "tag searches").
.TP
-e [errorfile]
Start in quickFix mode. The file [errorfile]
is read and the first error is displayed. If [errorfile] is omitted the file
name is obtained from the 'errorfile' option (defaults to "AztecC.Err" for
the Amiga, "errors" on other systems). Further errors can be jumped to 
with the ":cn" command. See reference.doc section 5.5.
.SH OPTIONS
The options, if present, must precede the filelist. The options may be given 
in any order.
.TP 12
-r
Recovery mode. The swap file is used to recover a crashed editing session. The
swap file is a file with the same file name as the text file with ".swp"
appended. See reference.doc, chapter "Recovery after a crash".
.TP
-v
View mode. The 'readonly' option will be set. You can still 
edit the buffer, but will be prevented from accidently 
overwriting a file. If you do want to overwrite a file, add 
an exclamation mark to the Ex command, as in ":w!".
The -v option also implies the -n option (see below).
The 'readonly' option can be reset with ":set noro" (see reference.doc, 
options chapter).
.TP
-b
Binary. A few options will be set that makes it possible to edit a binary or
executable file.
.TP
+[num]
For the first file the cursor will be positioned on line
"num". If "num" is missing, the cursor will be positioned on
the last line.
.TP
+/pat
For the first file the cursor will be positioned on the
first occurrence of "pat" (see reference.doc, 
section "pattern searches" for the available search 
patterns).
.TP
+{command}
.TP
-c {command}
{command} will be executed after the 
first file has been read. {command} is interpreted as an Ex 
command. If the {command} contains spaces it must 
be enclosed in double quotes (this depends on the shell that 
is used).
Example: Vim "+set si" main.c
.TP
-x
(Amiga only) Vim is not restarted to open a new window. This option should 
be used when Vim is executed by a program that will wait for the edit 
session to finish (e.g. mail). The ":sh" and ":!" commands will not work.
.TP
-o[N]
Open N windows. When N is omitted, open one window for each file.
.TP
-n
No swap file will be used. Recovery after a crash 
will be impossible. Handy if you want to edit a file on a 
very slow medium (e.g. floppy). Can also be done with ":set 
uc=0". Can be undone with ":set uc=200".
.TP
-s {scriptin}
The script file {scriptin} is read. The characters in the 
file are interpreted as if you had typed them. The same can 
be done with the command ":source! {scriptin}". If the end 
of the file is reached before the editor exits, further 
characters are read from the keyboard.
.TP
-w {scriptout}
All the characters that you type are recorded in the file
{scriptout}, until you exit VIM. This is useful if you want 
to create a script file to be used with "vim -s" or 
":source!".
.TP
-T terminal
Tells Vim the name of the terminal you are using. Should be a terminal known 
to Vim (builtin) or defined in the termcap file.
.TP
-d device
Open "device" for use as a terminal. Only on the Amiga. Example:
"\-d con:20/30/600/150".
.SH SEE ALSO
Vim documentation:
.TP 12
reference.doc:
A complete reference of Vim (long)
.TP
windows.doc:
Explanation of the multi windows and buffers commands and options
.TP
index:
Overview of all command characters (useful when adding new mappings)
.TP
difference.doc:
Overview of the differences between vi and Vim
.TP
unix.doc:
Unix-specific comments
.TP
vim.hlp:
File used by the on-line help (short)
.SH AUTHOR
Most of VIM was made by Bram Moolenaar.
.br
VIM is based on Stevie, worked on by: Tim Thompson,
Tony Andrews and G.R. (Fred) Walter
.SH BUGS
Probably.
